## Reproducibility Quest - educational tool for showcasing reproducibility

### Project description

An educational tool for showcasing importance of computational reproducibility. Users decide on set of rules for the analysis of a simple synthetic dataset riddled with issues to solve along the process. The results are then pooled into metaverse of all potential combinations.  

First time presented at the PB Roadshow in Basel (May 2024).  

### Project status

[ongoing]

### Project Teams channel

Project utilizes space fo the `2022 - Reproducible Research and Reporting` [channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3Acf5823db997148d788b559477d0a2514%40thread.tacv2/2022%20-%20Reproducible%20Research%20and%20Reporting?groupId=56b5de96-f951-4f48-ab2d-3068baeb1160&tenantId=06219a4a-a835-44d5-afaf-3926343bfb89). Folder `quest` stores all the materials there.  

### Developers

#### Lead(s)

  - @Elisa.Cavoto  
  - @Ricardo.Kanitz  
  - @Sarah.Mayor  
  - @Radoslaw.Panczak  
  - @Fernando.Santa  

### Methods

[Education, Inferential Statistics, Data Visualization, Software development, App]

### Technologies

R used for all data processing.  

Users' survey was captured in https://surveyplanet.com/  

Interactive data viz was delivered in small Shiny app.  

### Environment

It's strongly recommended to use the project on Posit since it utilizes Connect for publishing. 

Environment of last successful runs was captured with `renv`.  

### Contents

#### Data

##### Sources

Synthetic dataset is generated by `data_generation.qmd` with results posted on [Connect](https://connect.posit.syngenta.org/quest-data/).  

Package `FielDHub` was used for data generation following the desired set up of experiment.  

Precalculated results were stored locally (and on Teams) to make the app runs faster.  

##### Storage

`2022 - Reproducible Research and Reporting` channel is used for storage - particularly `quest` folder there.  

#### Code

- `data_generation.qmd` deals with preparation of synthetic data and describes the problems users will be facing  

- `options.qmd` deals with more analytical issues - it prepares dataset with all possible results so that Shiny app doesn't need to calculate anything and instead just merges appropriate results based on the 'key' formed by the combination of answers  

- `app.R` in top directory stores the Shiny app used to process the results of the survey - the gist there is to present the results selected by minimum cut off date & time to only get the latest cohort of participants  

- `R/functions.R` file contains functions that are used both by the app and by the `qmd` docs. Most importantly - preparing the survey data and generate two key plots of the app. There are also some smaller functions used in data preps in `qmd`s.  

`R` folder also contains some early explorations aimed at choosing the method.  For instance `blockdesign.R` deals with generating study design. And all `dendrogram*` files list early explorations of the plots.  

### How to run

Simply knit the `qmd` files or run the app. We recommend Workbench to knit the documents; app on the other hand should work from both local and Workbench.  

### How to contribute

If you are not part of the core dev team please do not push directly to main branch without prior approval - branch out and submit your proposed changes as a merge request for approval of the team.  
